The next Google update will change your
business forever. Everyone thought Chat
GPT was going to kill Google and they
weren't crazy to think that because in
just 3 years, Chad GPT hit 700 million
active users, forcing Google to adapt
and make the biggest change to its
business model in 25 years. And now
we're going to see ads fully integrated
into Google's AI mode. A shift that
could completely rewrite the future of
online business. I've studied every
major marketing shift, but this one is
different. It's not just an update. It's
a fundamental change in how Google makes
money. And if you're a marketer or
business owner, it's going to directly
impact how you get customers. I'm Neil
Patel, co-founder of NP Digital. Our
team manages more than a billion dollars
in Google ad spend for clients
worldwide. By the end of this video,
you'll learn why ads in Google's AI mode
will change the way people search and
shop online, what this shift means for
how your brand gets discovered on
Google, and the steps you can take right
now to capitalize on this AIdriven
world. Let's get into it.
Google just killed the business model
that made them 200 plus billion dollars
a year and they're betting AI will make
them even richer. For 25 years, Google's
entire business model was built on a
simple premise. You type in a search,
you see a list of links, and Google gets
paid when you click on a sponsored
result. That model generated over $200
billion in search revenue last year
alone. But now they're shaking up the
very system that made them one of the
most powerful companies in the world.
When you look at chat GBT or any AI
tool, it's not just getting a quick
answer and moving on. You actually have
a conversation as follow-ups, go deeper,
and get the exact context you need
without clicking through 10 different
websites or piecing together articles.
That's a behavior shift Google notice.
And they realized they had two choices,
fight it or own it. And they chose to
own it, even if it means cannibalizing
their own cash cow. Because here's the
thing, this isn't just about Google
protecting market share. They're betting
that keeping users inside their
ecosystem longer will be more profitable
than sending them away to other
websites. With over 100 million users
already using AI mode, users are
spending significantly more time
engaging with these AI powered results,
which means exponentially more
opportunities for Google to show them
ads and gather data about their
intentions. Google just brief agencies
about how ads will work in AI mode with
a full roll out expected before Q4 of
2025. The big change, the way the ads
target users will change from an
individual keywords to full conversation
context. Instead of advertisers bidding
on running shoes, you're now reaching
someone who has a complete conversation
with AI about their marathon training,
their pronation issues, or their
specific budget requirements. And here's
the really crazy part. Google's AI is
becoming agentic. That means it'll start
acting more and more like assistant that
can actually do things for you. You can
book your flight, make restaurant
reservations, even complete a purchase
on your behalf. So, in the near future,
your customer might never actually visit
your website. An AI agent will do it for
them. But this creates an incredible new
world that we've been anticipating. As
the search experience rolls out to more
users, we're looking at intent signals
that are 10 times richer than anything
we've ever seen before. So, the question
is, how do you position your business to
win in this new landscape?
Keywords are dead. Google's new AI mode
doesn't just read what you type. It
reads your entire conversation.
Traditional Google searches look like
this. Best running shoes, pizza near me,
how to lose weight. Short, simple,
keyword focus. But AI mode searches look
completely different. People are typing
in things like, I'm training for my
first marathon and I over pronate. What
running shoes would work best for
someone with my gate and budget of $300?
The second search contains incredible
rich intent data. Google's AI knows
you're beginner runner. You have a
specific foot issue and you have a
defined budget and you're preparing for
a major goal. That's not a keyword
search. That's a conversation that
reveals everything about what you
actually need. This is exactly why
Google is moving away from keyword-based
advertising and toward intentbased
targeting. Your ads won't just trigger
when someone types in running shoes.
They'll trigger when Google's AI
determines that someone in the
conversation needs exactly what you're
selling, even if they never use the
specific words you use to target. And
here's where it gets really interesting.
Google's AI isn't just reading what
people type. They're analyzing their
entire digital footprint to understand
context. It knows if you've been
researching marathon training plans, if
you bought running gear before, if
you've been watching YouTube videos
about proper running form, all of the
context feeds into whether your ads get
shown. Google announced that performance
max and their new max for search
campaigns will automatically show in AI
mode. If you're not already running
these campaign types, you're missing out
on reaching the first batch of 100
million users who are having these rich
conversational searches right now. The
ad formats stay tax and product based,
but instead of competing for keyword
relevance, you're now competing for
conversation relevance. And this leads
to something you'll very much
appreciate. There will be stark
differences between what separates the
winners from the losers in our new
AIdriven world. And it comes down to
something most businesses are
undervaluing.
[Music]
Google's AI is stalking your brand, your
website, your reviews, and even your
social posts, and using that to decide
if your ad should show up. Google's AI
is building a comprehensive brand
profile of your business, and that
profile directly influences when and how
your ads get served. Think about luxury
watch companies like Rolex. They
carefully curate every single touch
point to reinforce their positioning.
They partner with the right ad leads,
sponsor the right events, maintains the
consistent messaging across every
platform. Google's AI reads all of that
context, and understands exactly what
market position that brand occupies. If
your website looks outdated and your
social media is inconsistent, and your
customer reviews mention poor service,
Google's AI is factoring all that into
decisions about who to show your ads to.
You're literally training the system to
work against you. But most businesses
don't realize how important this is. So,
if you get this right early on, you're
going to have a huge competitive
advantage because Google's AI campaigns
work like compound interest. The more
highquality data you feed the system,
the better it gets in finding your ideal
customers. Google is emphasizing
something they called feed hygiene.
That's Google's way of saying garbage
in, garbage out. If you feed the system
messy, outdated, thin product
information, that's exactly the kind of
results you'll get back. If your data is
rich, specific, and current, you're
training Google's AI to connect you with
high quality customers every single
time. In AI mode, your product
descriptions need to answer
conversational queries. If someone asks,
"What's the best laptop for video
editing under $1,500?" Your product feed
better contain information about
processing power, graphic capabilities,
and creative use cases, not just
technical specifications. Your website
copy, your about page, social media
posts, even your customer testimonials.
All of that is now part of your
advertising strategy, whether you
realize it or not. Google's AI is
reading everything to understand what
your brand represents and who it should
serve your ads, too. This means the old
playbook won't be effective anymore. But
there's a new strategy that's emerging,
and the businesses that implement it
first are going to dominate their
market.
Your Google Ads account isn't just an ad
platform anymore. It's an AI training
system, and you're either teaching it to
win or lose. Your Google Ads account is
no longer just an advertising platform.
It's becoming an AI training system for
your business. Every conversion you
track, every piece of customer data you
import, every signal that you send about
what constitutes a valuable customer,
all of that is teaching Google's AI how
to find more people exactly like your
best customers. So, here's a new
playbook that's working for my agency.
First, stop micromanaging your ads.
Forget about tinkering with one keyword
at a time, tweaking bids every morning,
or slicing your audience into 100 tiny
buckets. Google's AI is already better
than us at that game. Instead, your job
is to give AI the right instructions.
Think of it as hiring a top salesperson.
You don't tell them what to say word for
word in every sales call. You tell them
what kind of customer you want, what's
worth paying extra for, and what a great
deal looks like. That's where smart
bidding comes in. You literally say,
"Hey Google, I'll happily pay more for a
new customer, especially if they're high
value, and the system will go and find
them for you." But remember, the AI is
only as smart as the data you feed it.
If you just track leads, you get more
leads, but maybe the wrong ones. If you
track leads that turn into real
customers, or which customers become
repeat buyers, the AI learns is truly
valuable. Think of it like teaching a
dog a trick. If you reward it for
sitting, it'll sit. If you reward it for
rolling over, it'll roll over. Google
works the same way. It does more of
whatever you reward it for. And here's
where it gets more powerful. Every week,
the system learns a little bit more
about your best customers. The gains
start small, but they build on each
other over time, like compound interest
in your bank account. One day, you'll
look up and realize those little
improvements turn into massive growth.
Now, before we go any further, let me
just say this. I know this is easier
said than done, and the new Google AI
landscape can feel a bit overwhelming,
especially with how fast things are
moving. The old tricks and hacks just
don't work anymore. And if you can't
adapt, you'll get left behind. That's
exactly what my agency does. We help
businesses adapt to AI powered
performance marketing. We set up,
manage, and optimize your ads so you can
capitalize on this new world without the
guesswork. If you want better results
without stressing about figuring it all
out, just go to npdigital.com, book a
free call with my team, and we'll show
you how we can help.
Now, let me ask you important question.
Will users actually click on ads in AI
conversations? If AI keeps people inside
the conversation, it could mean fewer
clicks out to websites. And that matters
because Google's entire ad business has
always depended on clicks. If fewer
people click, Google may need a new way
to charge advertisers. Maybe per
impression or even per conversion that
happens inside AI mode. We don't know
exactly how this will play out yet. But
here's what we do know. The intent is
stronger. When someone spends five
minutes chatting with AI about their
budget, their needs, and their exact
situation, any clicks that do happen are
going to be from people who are far more
ready to buy. That creates a massive
opportunity for early movers. If you
start adapting now, you'll train the AI
to recognize your best customers before
your competitors even show up. And once
they learn that it compounds, it'll
nearly be impossible for them to catch
you. This is just the beginning of how
AI is transforming digital marketing.
I'm spending every day helping
businesses from small mom and pops to
massive global enterprises win in this
new world of LLM optimization. So, if
you want to go deeper and really
understand how consumer behavior is
shifting and how you can generate more
traffic and sales, check out my next
video on the screen. It'll give you the
exact strategies you need to stay ahead.